VIDEO: Michelle Grattan on infighting in the Liberal Party
The University of Canberra's Michelle Grattan and Frances Shannon discuss the week in politics, including the internal conflict within the Liberals over Tony Abbott's sniping, whether the phased reduction to penalty rates will be an election issue, Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull's visit to Hamburg for the G20 summit, and the implications of North Korea testing its missiles.

Book review: The Death of Expertise
I have to start this review with a confession: I wanted to like this book from the moment I read the title.
Tom Nichols' The Death of Expertise: The Campaign Against Established Knowledge and Why it Matters is a motivating - if at times slightly depressing - read.
In the author's words, his goal is to examine:
... the relationship between experts and citizens in a democracy, why that relationship is collapsing, and what all of us, citizens and experts, might do about it.
This resonates strongly with what I see playing out around the world almost every day - from the appalling state of energy politics in Australia, to the frankly bizarre condition of public debate on just about anything in the US and the UK.
Nichols' focus is on the US, but the parallels with similar nations are myriad.
He expresses a deep concern that "the average American" has base knowledge so low it has crashed through the floor of "uninformed", passed "misinformed" on the way down, and is now plummeting to "aggressively wrong".
And this is playing out against a backdrop in which people don't just believe "dumb things", but actively resist any new information that might threaten these beliefs.
He doesn't claim this situation is new, per se - just that it seems to be accelerating, and proliferating, at eye-watering speed.
Intimately entwined with this, Nichols mourns the decay of our ability to have constructive, positive public debate.
He reminds us that we are increasingly in a world where disagreement is seen as a personal insult.
A world where argument means conflict rather than debate, and ad hominem is the rule rather than the exception.
Again, this is not necessarily a new issue - but it is certainly a growing one.
The book covers a broad and interconnected range of topics related to its key subject matter.
It considers the contrast between experts and citizens, and highlights how the antagonism between these roles has been both caused and exacerbated by the exhausting and often insult-laden nature of what passes for public conversations.
Nichols also reflects on changes in the mediating influence of journalism on the relationship between experts and "citizens".
He reminds us of the ubiquity of Google and its role in reinforcing the conflation of information, knowledge and experience.
His chapter on the contribution of higher education to the ailing relationship between experts and citizens particularly appeals to me as an academic.
Two of his points here exemplify academia's complicity in diminishing this relationship.
Nichols outlines his concern about the movement to treat students as clients, and the consequent over-reliance on the efficacy and relevance of student assessment of their professors.
While not against "limited assessment", he believes:
Evaluating teachers creates a habit of mind in which the layperson becomes accustomed to judging the expert, despite being in an obvious position of having inferior knowledge of the subject material.
Nichols also asserts this student-as-customer approach to universities is accompanied by an implicit, and also explicit, nurturing of the idea that:
Emotion is an unassailable defence against expertise, a moat of anger and resentment in which reason and knowledge quickly drown.
And when students learn that emotion trumps everything else, it is a lesson they will take with them for the rest of their lives.
The pervasive attacks on experts as "elitists" in US public discourse receive little sympathy in this book (nor should these).
Nichols sees these assaults as entrenched not so much in ignorance, more as being rooted in:
... unfounded arrogance, the outrage of an increasingly narcissistic culture that cannot endure even the slightest hint of inequality of any kind.
Linked to this, he sees a confusion in the minds of many between basic notions of democracy in general, and the relationship between expertise and democracy in particular.
Democracy is, Nichols reminds us, "a condition of political equality": one person, one vote, all of us equal in the eyes of the law.
But in the US at least, he feels people:
... now think of democracy as a state of actual equality, in which every opinion is a good as any other on almost any subject under the sun.
Feelings are more important than facts: if people think vaccines are harmful ... then it is "undemocratic" and "elitist" to contradict them.
The danger, as he puts it, is that a temptation exists in democratic societies to become caught up in "resentful insistence on equality", which can turn into "oppressive ignorance" if left unchecked.
I find it hard to argue with him.
Nichols acknowledges that his arguments expose him to the very real danger of looking like yet another pontificating academic, bemoaning the dumbing down of society.
It's a practice common among many in academia, and one that is often code for our real complaint: that people won't just respect our authority.
There are certainly places where a superficial reader would be tempted to accuse him of this.
But to them I suggest taking more time to consider more closely the contexts in which he presents his arguments.
This book does not simply point the finger at "society" or "citizens": there is plenty of critique of, and advice for, experts.
Among many suggestions, Nichols offers four explicit recommendations.
The first is that experts should strive to be more humble.
Second, be ecumenical - and by this Nichols means experts should vary their information sources, especially where politics is concerned, and not fall into the same echo chamber that many others inhabit.
Three, be less cynical.
Here he counsels against assuming people are intentionally lying, misleading or wilfully trying to cause harm with assertions and claims that clearly go against solid evidence.
Finally, he cautions us all to be more discriminating - to check sources scrupulously for veracity and for political motivations.
In essence, this last point admonishes experts to mindfully counteract the potent lure of confirmation bias that plagues us all.
It would be very easy for critics to cherry-pick elements of this book and present them out of context, to see Nichols as motivated by a desire to feather his own nest and reinforce his professional standing: in short, to accuse him of being an elitist.
Sadly, this would be a prime example of exactly what he is decrying.
To these people, I say: read the whole book first.
If it makes you uncomfortable, or even angry, consider why.
Have a conversation about it and formulate a coherent argument to refute the positions with which you disagree.
Try to resist the urge to dismiss it out of hand or attack the author himself.
I fear, though, that as is common with a treatise like this, the people who might most benefit are the least likely to read it.
And if they do, they will take umbrage at the minutiae, and then dismiss or attack it.
Unfortunately we haven't worked how to change that.
But to those so inclined, reading this book should have you nodding along, comforted at least that you are not alone in your concern that the role of expertise is in peril.

Grattan on Friday: Everything's going Bill Shorten's way
Bill Shorten has been on holidays this week.
Probably just as well.
The "energizer bunny" would have felt the need to be out every day, as usual.
His absence left more room for the fractured Liberals.
Shorten's extraordinary political luck continues, as Tony Abbott rampages, to the despair or fury of frustrated colleagues.
But it is not just his opponents that have been raining political gifts on Labor.
Last weekend saw the start of the phase-in of the Fair Work Commission's decision to cut Sunday penalty rates for retail, hospitality, fast-food and pharmacy workers.
Admittedly this isn't WorkChoices.
But for Shorten it could become a pale version of it.
Hundreds of thousands of employees stand to lose, very many of whom are low-income earners.
And it's not just those directly affected.
Think of parents who have kids doing some Sunday shifts.
And consider the potential for a scare campaign about other sectors.
Shorten has a clear-cut policy to sell.
A Labor government would legislate to reverse the commission's decision and prevent a repeat.
This is an issue made for Shorten's skill set.
As a former union leader, he's effective at rallies and at home in workplace conversations.
He can mesh his campaign with that of the union movement, which has plenty of feet on the ground.
There can be photo opportunities at businesses that decide not to cut their employees' rates.
The opposition will potentially lose support among those in small business who favour the rates cut.
But Shorten can reckon that most of them would be voting Coalition anyway.
There is a social logic and an economic rationale for lowering Sunday penalty rates.
You can say that these days Sunday is little different from Saturday, for which penalty rates have been less.
The economic argument is that businesses will be inclined to put on extra workers, or in some cases open on Sundays, if rates are not as high.
But there is a disconnect between the economics and the politics.
What would make sense if setting rates from scratch is political poison when it is a matter of changing the status quo.
It's the same difficulty a government has when removing or reducing access to a benefit.
Also, even assuming there'll be a gain in employment - which some dispute - it is unlikely to show up quickly, given the phase-in.
The pain will be felt before any gain.
Anyway, that gain will be difficult to separate from other factors affecting employment.
Those suffering a cut in wages will be able to identify its cause; people getting jobs that mightn't have been there before won't usually make a direct link.
The government knows penalty rates is dangerous ground for it.
While it makes the economic case in a desultory way, it is more likely to emphasise that it was the umpire's decision.
On both sides of politics there's now a feeling the next election is Shorten's to lose.
But that in itself is a reason for a few Labor jitters.
There could be nearly two years before the election; the favourite doesn't always win the race; the sour mood in voterland carries its risks for both sides (though mostly for the government); Shorten lacks charisma and always lags behind Malcolm Turnbull as preferred prime minister.
Shorten is something of a prisoner of his success.
With Labor in a sustained lead in two-party terms, he needs to maintain that advantage.
If the Coalition hauled up to equal, the climate would quickly change, fuelled by the media, sections of which are feral.
While it's extremely unlikely Shorten would be replaced before the election, any serious revival of the Coalition in the polls would trigger a rash of speculation about the ambitions of Anthony Albanese.
A taste of what Shorten can expect as the election draws closer came with Daily Telegraph's Wednesday front page fake news story reporting a Shorten government's first 100 days.
Under the heading "NOW HERE'S YOUR BILL", it read: "Workers laid off. Record tax rates. Rents hit new high."
In the Shorten office they had a good laugh.
They can take comfort in the fact the Tele's clout in Sydney's west isn't what it used to be.
Much of the political risk Shorten faces revolves around tax.
Labor's policy is to reimpose the deficit levy on higher-income earners (it expired on June 30).
So if there were a change of government these people would face two extra taxes - that levy and the budget's increase in the Medicare levy, proposed to kick in from 2019.
They would have a marginal tax rate of 49.5%.
Labor opposes the government's proposal for tax cuts for big companies but has yet to say what it would do about the already-legislated tax cuts for small and medium-sized businesses, phased in over coming years.
While it will keep the cut for small businesses (up to A$2 million or perhaps $10 million turnover), the medium-sized businesses (up to $50 million turnover) are likely to take a hit.
If that turns out to be the decision (expected before the end of this year) it will cause Shorten grief with the business sector - more than his stand on penalty rates will.
What to do about these legislated company tax cuts looms as one of the most important policy judgements Labor has to make in coming months.
Shorten's opponents are still struggling to find the right negative with which to hit him.
There was an unfulfilled expectation he'd be much damaged by the trade union royal commission.
Turnbull has tried to cast him as the friend of billionaires.
Recently, Shorten was hammered not just by the government but in the media for his nay-saying response to the budget, including opposing the Medicare levy hike for those on incomes under $87,000.
While the Labor frontbench was divided over the levy stand, it did fit squarely into the wider Shorten narrative of protecting lower-income earners.
Labor also came under fire for its opposition to the government's Gonski 2.0 package - its stance on this seemed to me much more dubious in policy terms than its attitude on the Medicare levy.
So far, the criticisms of its policy positions haven't harmed the opposition in the polls.
One reason Labor is proving hard for the Coalition to dent is because of what the public are not saying about Shorten's team.
People aren't saying it is divided and fighting internally.
That stark contrast with the other side is a boon for an aspiring prime minister.

Explainer: what is ballistic missile defence - and would it stop a missile from North Korea?
North Korea's test this week of an intercontinental ballistic missile has reignited interest and debate on the feasibility of ballistic missile defence systems, and whether countries such as Australia should seek to acquire them.
But what are these systems, and how do they work?
How effective would they be in providing a defence against a potential missile attack?
How do they work?
All ballistic missile defence systems consist of a network of tracking and guidance radars, and the interceptor launchers.
On detecting a ballistic missile launch, the radars track the missile's trajectory, fire an interceptor to shoot it down, and prepare further interceptors to be launched if the first one misses.
This is referred to as a "shoot-look-shoot" strategy, as opposed to a strategy of saturation - where the defender simply shoots as many interceptors as possible in the hope of achieving a kill.
Modern defence systems use interceptor missiles carrying kinetic kill vehicles.
These are warheads that are non-explosive and designed to destroy incoming ballistic missiles by simply crashing into them.
All of the systems mentioned below are intended to work in conjunction with one another.
They are integrated to provide the ability to shoot down ballistic missiles throughout their flight path.
However, they are also capable of operating independently, although with less effectiveness than if operated in conjunction with other systems.
Missile defence systems in the region
The US and its allies in the Asia-Pacific currently deploy several ballistic missile defence systems.
These would be used in the unlikely event that North Korea decided to actually launch a ballistic missile attack.
The first and most prominent is Terminal High Altitude Area Defence, or THAAD, which the US has deployed in South Korea.
THAAD is designed to shoot down ballistic missiles in the terminal phase of flight - that is, as the ballistic missile is re-entering the atmosphere to strike its target.
The second relevant system is Patriot PAC-3, which is designed to provide late terminal phase interception - that is, after the missile has re-entered the atmosphere.
It is deployed by US forces operating in the region, as well as Japan.
Perhaps the most capable system currently in operation in the region is the Aegis naval system, which is deployed on US and Japanese destroyers.
It is designed to intercept ballistic missiles in the mid-course phase of flight - that is, when the missile is outside of earth's atmosphere and transiting to its target.
What all of these systems have in common is they are theatre ballistic missile defence systems, designed to provide protection against short-, medium- and intermediate-range ballistic missiles.
Intercontinental ballistic missiles, such as the one tested by North Korea this week, fly too high and fast for these systems to engage with.
Aegis has demonstrated some limited capability to engage targets similar to intercontinental ballistic missiles.
It was used to shoot down a malfunctioning spy satellite in 2008, but has never been tested against an actual intercontinental ballistic missile target.
The only system expressly designed to shoot down intercontinental ballistic missiles is the US Ground-based Midcourse Defence.
However, this has a very patchy record in testing.
By the end of 2017 it will only have 44 interceptors deployed.
How effective are they?
None of these systems is 100% effective, and most have an iffy record in testing.
Aegis has succeeded in 35 out of 42 tests, while Ground-based Midcourse Defence has had only ten successes in 18 tests.
However, THAAD has been successful in 18 out of 18 tests.
Tests are conducted in favourable conditions - and it is reasonable to expect the success rates to be lower in actual combat use.
The true difficulty lies with intercontinental ballistic missiles.
An intercontinental ballistic missile can attain altitudes well in excess of low earth orbit.
Those fired on a typical long-range trajectory can exceed 1,200km in altitude.
The high-trajectory, short-range test shot North Korea conducted this week attained an altitude of 2,700km.
By way of comparison, the International Space Station orbits at an altitude of around 400km.
However, the altitude intercontinental ballistic missiles attain is only part of the problem.
The other major challenge facing ballistic missile defence is the truly enormous speeds that missiles attain during the terminal phase.
They often hit or exceed 20 times the speed of sound.
A common comparison used is that ballistic missile defence is akin to shooting a bullet in flight with another bullet.
The reality is even more extreme.
For example, a .300 Winchester Magnum (a high-velocity hunting and sniper round) can achieve a velocity of 2,950 feet per second as it leaves the barrel.
This equates to 3,237km/h, or 2.62 times the speed of sound.
An intercontinental ballistic missile can achieve speeds almost eight times faster than this.
As a result, it is almost impossible to reliably defend against such missiles.
This is not necessarily a problem for countries such as Japan and South Korea.
Any ballistic missile used by North Korea against them would be a shorter-range ballistic missile that these systems could engage.
However, countries should be mindful that these systems provide limited-to-no capability to defend against intercontinental ballistic missiles.
In Australia's case, the only missiles capable of reaching this far from North Korea are intercontinental ballistic missiles.
Thus, even if Australia decided to invest in ballistic missile defence, it would provide little-to-no protection from a potential North Korean nuclear attack.

How Angela Merkel has become - and remains - one of the world's most successful political leaders
There are very few political leaders who have perfected the art of having their political cake and eating it too.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel is one of these.
Internationally, she is renowned as the leader of Europe who seemingly single-handedly rehabilitated Germany's international reputation by welcoming refugees with the catchphrase "we can do it".
With electoral pressure building, however, she publicly distanced herself from this stance as the CDU/CSU party faithful sent back the message that they were not so sure.
Now, by accepting their demand for a Bundestag vote, she has outflanked Martin Schulz's Social Democrats by securing the passage of marriage equality as one of her government's achievements, despite openly voting against it herself.
The issue has been effectively neutralised.
Before marriage equality had arisen as an issue, Merkel had also done the same with immigration and the hot-button issue of asylum seekers.
As one report put it, Merkel's "summer of welcome" that saw asylum seekers march across Europe to reach the safe-haven of Germany has been followed by a long winter of conservative base-pleasing changes to the country's political asylum laws.
These have made it much tougher to successfully claim refugee status and much easier for unsuccessful asylum seekers to be deported to countries such as Afghanistan.
Pushed by circumstances to the centre, Merkel's CDU/CSU coalition has now steered back to the right on refugees.
Given her 2010 statement that multiculturalism has "utterly failed", this seems to be where she would prefer it to stay.
Merkel, who has been German chancellor for a remarkable 12 years, is facing an election in September.
Electorally, her right-ward shift on migration has largely defused the threat from Germany's rabidly anti-immigration, far-right "Alternative for Germany" (AfD) party, which has also been hit hard by internal divisions.
While still gaining some traction in local and state elections, the AfD's "Merkel must go" demonstrators are looking increasingly unsavoury to German voters.
The marriage equality vote is another textbook example of how Merkel has been able to defuse highly controversial issues before an election.
With the promise of same-sex marriage looming as a real point of difference between Merkel's conservatives and her junior coalition partners, the centre-left SPD, Merkel swiftly brought on a conscience vote in the Bundestag that freed culturally liberal conservatives to vote for the measure and thus ensure its passage.
In a matter of days, the issue of marriage equality had been raised, voted on, and dealt with.
The SPD has done its best to paint this as their victory.
But, the plaudits have largely fallen to Merkel.
Notwithstanding recent rumblings that conservative Bavaria might challenge the decision in the Federal Constitutional Court, this was all done without a protracted or acrimonious public debate on the legislation.
Nor did it require a divisive referendum or plebiscite, or further harden divisions in her conservative coalition.
In keeping with her role as a self-conscious dampener of debate, Merkel took no part in the Bundestag discussion on marriage equality held before the vote.
Instead, she merely took her red "no" voting card to the front of the assembly and, holding it so as not to obscure it, cast it.
When called on by the press to explain her vote, Merkel again avoided emotive discussion or the appearance of deeply felt conviction.
She said simply that the measure did not, to her mind, conform to Article Six of Germany's constitutional protection of marriage.
Effectively, her argument was that, in a conscience vote, she was guided not by her conscience, but by her interpretation of law.
To this rather clinical argument she added only that she hoped the resolution of the issue would foster both mutual respect and "a bit of social peace".
This last remark offers an insight into Merkel's understanding of the chancellorship.
By refusing to be distracted by narrow culture wars in defence of totemic conservative issues, Merkel has in fact presided over a coalition government that is strongly conservative in substance, but careful to avoid the impression of being anything other than pragmatic.
Domestically, Merkel has stuck to the so-called "schwarze Null" (budget in the black) policy, despite worries about ageing state infrastructure.
Externally, she has stubbornly held to the conservative policy of defending German interests against the pleas of Greece and other struggling European countries for more generous forms of economic assistance.
Yet such criticisms of her policy direction have failed to gain widespread traction.
On the contrary, in the flamboyant age of Donald Trump and Britain's Brexiteers, her unassuming but tenacious leadership style has appealed to many, both inside and outside of Germany, as reassuringly level-headed.
A federal election is just two months away, and Merkel has tried to clear the decks.
With tough new asylum laws, the threat of a migration election has receded.
And with the passage of marriage equality legislation, the possibility of the vote becoming a de facto referendum on gay marriage has been averted.
With recent polls placing the CDU vote at 40%, and the SPD languishing on 23% (with the AfD slumping to 7%), Merkel is looking comfortable.
Barring the unforeseen, Merkel seems likely to win her fourth election victory looking like a centrist, in coalition with social democrats, but governing as a conservative.

Suburbs 'swamped' by Asians and Muslims?
The data show a different story
Population growth has profound impacts on Australian life, and sorting myths from facts can be difficult.
This article is part of our series, Is Australia Full?
, which aims to help inform a wide-ranging and often emotive debate.
In her maiden speech to federal parliament in 1996, Pauline Hanson claimed Australia was in danger of being "swamped by Asians".
At her re-election to the Senate on 2016, Hanson expanded her claim to also being "swamped by Muslims".
But is this factually correct?
Using data from the 2011 Census, we analysed the distribution of Asians and Muslims at four spatial scales (neighbourhood, suburb, district, and region) within Australia's 11 largest urban areas.
We found no evidence of any "swamping" by Muslims, or of ultra-segregation into "ghettos".
There are concentrations of Asians, mainly in Sydney and Melbourne.
But they are mostly neighbourhoods and suburbs where they form only a small minority of local populations.
The geography of Asians and Muslims
Asians form small minorities in about half of the more than 33,000 local neighbourhoods (average population of 430) across Australia's 11 cities.
In another 40% of neighbourhoods, Asians comprise between 10% and 25% of local populations.
In only 2% overall do they make up more than half the local population.
The geography of Muslims is very different, and much less segregated.
They are a much smaller proportion of Australia's 11 metropolitan and major urban areas.
But they are almost entirely absent from many neighbourhoods and suburbs.
In only 82 of the 33,337 neighbourhoods and in just one suburb - all in Sydney and Melbourne - do Muslims constitute half the local population.
In only four Sydney neighbourhoods and one in Melbourne (0.015% combined) is the Muslim population as high as 70%.
A figure of 70% or more is regarded in the international literature on Western cities as indicating a ghetto situation.
Which cities stand out?
So, one point stands out: local neighbourhoods where Asians and Muslims form a majority are almost entirely concentrated in Australia's two major cities - Sydney and Melbourne.
Brisbane and, less so, Perth also have very small pockets where Asians form half of neighbourhood populations.
In none of the other nine places is there even a single neighbourhood where Muslims form a majority of local neighbourhood populations.
In three of them - Newcastle, Geelong and Darwin - there are no neighbourhoods where Asians are a majority.
In Sydney, just under 8% of neighbourhoods contain one-quarter of the city's Asian population.
In Melbourne there are fewer Asian neighbourhoods, with 12% of the city's Asian population.
The Sydney suburb of Hurstville, which Hanson has identified as somewhere "swamped by Asians", has 63% of its population Asian.
And nine other Sydney neighbourhoods are home to 13% of the city's total Asian population.
But such a concentration is rare elsewhere.
Melbourne has four districts (groups of suburbs) with Asian majorities.
Sydney and Melbourne also have the largest Muslim populations.
But few are concentrated in areas - even at the smallest, neighbourhood level, where they form as much as half of local populations.
In only one suburb, Sydney's Lakemba, is more than half the population Muslim (predominantly Lebanese).
But even in a suburb like Lakemba, these concentrations are scattered across different neighbourhoods.
Why the moral panic?
Polish sociologist Zygmunt Bauman argued that populist political parties like One Nation promote their causes by creating "moral panics", or fears of:
... some evil [that] threatens the wellbeing of society.
In this situation, multiculturalism is presented as creating such fears where many of the immigrants are seen as "strangers", culturally different from everybody else.
For some, known as "mixophiles", the presence of such strangers in their midst is a positive aspect of city life.
But not so among "mixophobes", whom Bauman saw as concentrated among those who:
... lack the capacity to cut themselves off from [what they see as] ... all too often unfriendly, distrustful and hostile urban environments.
This latter situation provides "highly fertile and nourishing meadows tempting many a political vote-gatherer to graze on them".
This, Bauman argues, is an opportunity:
... a growing number of politicians [not to mention certain media elements] would be loath to miss.
You can read other articles in the Is Australia Full?

The West's hyperbole on North Korea will only fuel Kim Jong-un's propaganda
After a fairly quiet couple of months on North Korea and its self-styled madman leader, Kim Jong-un, the international community is again on high alert.
On Tuesday, North Korea undertook another missile test.
This time it tested an inter-continental ballistic missile, which it claims can reach anywhere in the world.
On paper, North Korea represents a sizeable threat to the international community.
It is a totalitarian state; it has nuclear weapons; and it is ruled by a megalomaniac leader.
Even to the most self-assured deterrence theorist, North Korea must elicit some dark fears.
Fuelling North Korea's propaganda
The potential destruction of a nuclear attack and the likely repercussions is so grave that it is understandable that most are prepared to take Kim's rhetoric and actions at face value.
This is smart, in one sense, because it is arguably not worth poking a deranged animal about what he should rationally do by using international relations theory.
However, in another sense, it is giving Kim exactly what he wants: fuel for propaganda.
Kim's rhetoric and actions are a carefully crafted strategy of brinkmanship, designed mostly for maintaining his domestic grip on power.
The biggest challenge in his position as supreme leader - one all autocrats face - is how to maintain his authoritarian rule.
Unlike leaders in democracies - where elections give a clear popular mandate to rule, and institutions have legitimacy in the eyes of the people - autocrats face an ongoing domestic conundrum of how best to cultivate legitimacy.
Two strategies are commonly used: repression and propaganda.
Repression (often involving terror) is an obvious tactic that leaders and elites in authoritarian countries utilise to solidify their grip on power.
Weakening people's belief that collective action can bring about positive change is an important prerequisite for authoritarian rule.
Ironically, it is often when authoritarian states undertake some form of liberalisation that people are able to rise up and topple the incumbent regime.
Two such examples are the French Revolution and the collapse of the Soviet Union.
Propaganda is a similarly noticeable tactic that leaders and elites in authoritarian countries use to justify and explain their harsh rule.
Such propaganda usually has two aims: discrediting dissidents, and blaming external actors.
Under this propaganda, which becomes more potent when a state has a monopoly on the dissemination of information, domestic dissidents and opposition movements become wreckers or terrorists.
Overseas adversaries become meddlers or imperialists.
Can China contain the threat?
Of importance to the international community right now is that, in a similar fashion to Vladimir Putin in Russia and Recep Tayyip Erdogan in Turkey, Kim has consciously used an external adversary for domestic propaganda purposes.
In this case, it is the US and its proxies - especially South Korea.
To this end, Kim's rhetoric and action against the US and others is framed domestically as the heroic defiance of an evil enemy.
As the Putin example shows, standing up to a perceived evil enemy - especially a more powerful one - garners a lot of domestic support.
Kim Jong-un, like his father Kim Jong-il, has been able to pursue this strategy of brinkmanship with great success, at least for domestic purposes.
This is mainly because despite all the international repercussions to date - ostracism, sanctions, and threats of intervention - China has been willing to prop up North Korea.
China's interest is simple.
It sees a potentially unified Korea that would place US military bases on its border as untenable.
So, propping up North Korea is of clear strategic value.
China probably sees Kim's toppling as something that cannot be allowed to happen.
However, it still has the best chance of managing the North Korean conundrum with the least amount of fallout.
Given its own authoritarian - and previously totalitarian - structure, China probably understands Kim's strategy of brinkmanship better than the West does.
Also, China has the leverage to assuage Kim, and ensure his rhetoric and actions remain mere brinkmanship and not active policy.
These facts, and the probability that China would not want any conflict between North Korea and the West, should provide confidence that - if US President Donald Trump can get out of the way - the North Korean threat is largely under control.
But we definitely have not heard the last of Kim, or North Korea's weapons program.

